Socat
Socat is a command-line utility that
establishes two bidirectional byte streams
and transfers data between them.
It is similar to Netcat but
has additional useful features
so let’s see how it compares.
First, let’s connect to a remote server
on port 110 using socat.
In this example, the protocol, options
and port number are all colon-delimited.
In this example, TCP4 indicates
the protocol…
The hyphen character is used
to transfer data
between STAND I.O. and the remote host,
allowing our keyboard
interaction with the shell,
and 110 is the port number.
As with our Netcat connection
we made earlier,
we can now interact with
the remote service.
Next, lets look at how to
start a listener with socat.
Because root privileges are required
to bind a listener on privileged ports,
we need to use sudo when starting
a listener on port 443:
This time, we selected a TCP4 listener…
and used the STDOUT argument
which redirects standard output.
Let’s connect to our listener
from our Windows client
and replicate our simple
chat from earlier.
With our connection made, we should
be able to chat between our two clients.
Great, our bi-directional chat
is working perfectly.
Next, we will try out file transfers.